This is the short narrative of the events at Walden pond. Judging by the perspective and complete knowledge, many have come to believe that is must have been authored by non other thant the witch herself.

---

This is the story of the man Thoreau, many of you have known him as a myth, a man that might have been, a story rooted in dubious truths, whisper. Delude yourselves no longer. The man is true. In these pages I will document the happenings of Walden pond, and the tragic story of the man Thoreau.

//Thoreau spent two years in Walden Pond, near Concord, Massachusetts, living a simple life supported by no one. He says //that he now resides among the civilized again; the episode was clearly both experimental and temporary. 

//The first chapter, “Economy,” is a manifesto of social thought and meditations on domestic management, and in it //Thoreau sketches out his ideals as he describes his pond project. He devotes attention to the skepticism and wondermen//t with which townspeople had greeted news of his project, and he defends himself from their views that society is the //only place to live. He recounts the circumstances of his move to Walden Pond, along with a detailed account of the //steps he took to construct his rustic habitation and the methods by which he supported himself in the course of his //wilderness experiment. It is a chapter full of facts, figures, and practical advice, but also offers big ideas about //the claims of individualism versus social existence, all interspersed with evidence of scholarship and a propensity //for humor. 

Thoreau tells us that he completed his cabin in the spring of 1845 and moved in on July 4 of that year. Most of the materials and tools he used to build his home he borrowed or scrounged from abandoned sites he found throughout the forrest. The land he squats on belongs to his friend Ralph Waldo Emerson, a man held in ill regard by the local inhabitants due to his facination with nature and the human soul, a fascination that they deemed unhealthy. Many of Thoreau's early, peaceful hours are given to the detailing and analyizing of his entire project's construction costs. In order to make a little money, Thoreau begins cultivating a modest bean-field, a job that tends to occupy his mornings. He reserves his afternoons and evenings for contemplation, reading, and walking about the countryside. His walks are, for the most part, peaceful. Having publically commited to his project, he is reluctant to voice concern. He has little previous experience living in nature, and dismisses the things he begins to notice as true examples of the complexity of nature. Seeking refuge in the values of austerity, simplicity, and solitude, Thoreau consistently emphasizes to himself, and his future readers the contentment to be derived from the minimalistic lifestyle that he tries to exemplify. He repeatedly contrasts his own freedom with the imprisonment of others who devote their lives to material prosperity, choosing often reinterate that he is completely free.

Despite his isolation, Thoreau feels the presence of society surrounding him. The Fitchburg Railroad rushes past Walden Pond, interrupting his reveries and forcing him to contemplate the power of technology. Thoreau also finds occasion to converse with a wide range of other people, such as the occasional peasant farmer, railroad worker, or the strange visitor to Walden. He describes in some detail his association with these odd visitors. He contemplates Walden pond, and speaks of a strange beauty he is only just beginning to see, asserting that perhaps it is this unique quality that draws these travelers. He often makes frequent trips into Concord to seek the society of his longtime friends, though they begin to distance themselves from him. He conducts what scattered business he can. On one such trip, Thoreau spends a night in jail for refusing to pay a poll tax because, he says, the government supports slavery. Hr is released the next day and returns to Walden in high spirits. As he begins to settle into his life at Walden again.

Thoreau devotes great attention to nature, the passing of the seasons, and the creatures with which he shares the woods. He recounts the habits of a panoply of animals, from woodchucks to partridges, repeatedly voices bafflement at the apparent habits of the local deer. He endows some animals with a larger meaning, often spiritual or psychological, he sees only one deer and contemplates it's spiritual significance often. The hooting loon that plays hide and seek with Thoreau becomes a symbol of the playfulness of nature and its divine laughter at human endeavors. He sees the loon often near his home. Another example of animal symbolism is the full-fledged ant war that he stumbles upon, prompting him to meditate on human warfare. Thoreau’s interest in animals is not exactly like the naturalist’s or zoologist’s. He does not observe and describe them neutrally and scientifically, but gives them a moral and philosophical significance, as if each has a distinctive lesson to teach him. The lessons, as he sees them, begin to give him a feeling of spirital mastery of the forrest. 

As autumn turns to winter, Thoreau begins preparations for the arrival of the cold. He listens to the squirrel, the rabbit, fox and the deer as they scuttle about gathering food, his deer are often load in the night. He watches the migrating birds, and welcomes the pests that infest his cabin as they escape the coming frosts. He details the loon leaving the area of his home, often to wish for it's return. He prepares his walls with plaster to shut out the wind. By day he makes a study of the snow and ice, giving special attention to the mystic blue ice of Walden Pond, and by night he sits and listens to the wind as it whips and whistles outside his door, often load enough to be heard over the deer. Thoreau occasionally sees ice-fishermen come to cut out huge blocks that are shipped off to cities, and contemplates how most of the ice will melt and flow back to Walden Pond. Occasionally Thoreau receives a visit from a friend like William Ellery Channing or Amos Bronson Alcott, but for the most part he is alone. In one chapter, he conjures up visions of earlier residents of Walden Pond long dead and largely forgotten, including poor tradesmen and former slaves. He has many fevered dreams the inhabitants that he has invented. Even as they trouble his dreams, Thoreau prefers to see himself in their company, rather than alone. Thoreau begins to talk aloud with his previous inhabitants.

As he becomes acquainted with Walden Pond and neighboring ponds, Thoreau wants to map their layout and measure their depths. After losing many lines, Thoreau finds that Walden Pond is more than a four hundred feet deep, thereby confirming the common folk wisdom that it is bottomless, though he later refutes his own findings through further measurement of the same area. He begins to find him self at his cabin, even after long walks away, eventually losing his ability to find the town which the estimates to be two miles due east. He meditates on the pond as a symbol of infinity that people need in their lives, as symbol that he needs in his life. He goes on to pen many pages on his contentment with his isolation. Eventually winter gives way to spring, and with a huge crash and roar the ice of Walden Pond begins to melt and hit the shore. He muses that the roaring of Walden pond feels much like the winter deer. In lyric imagery echoing the onset of Judgment Day, Thoreau describes the coming of spring as a vast transformation of the face of his small world, and hopes that, in time, "the seasons" will forgive his sins are forgiven.

Thoreau announces that his project at the pond is over, and that he returned to civilized life on September 6, 1847. The revitalization of the landscape suggests the restoration of the full powers of the human soul, and Thoreau’s narrative observations give way, in the last chapter of Walden, to a more direct sermonizing about the untapped potential within humanity. In visionary language, Thoreau exhorts us to “meet” our lives and live fully.
